---
date: 2016-11-21T13:38:55+01:00
title: 2.0.0 version released
type: "news"
---

New version released adding import of HMC PCM(Performance and capacity Monitoring) data.
Get a view of all your partitions and systems in a single panel.

<!--more-->

# HMC PCM data import

It's possible to import PCM data from all systems where PCM data collection is set.

{{< highlight batch >}}
nmon2influxdb hmc import --hmc myhmc --hmcuser hscroot --hmcpass abc123
{{</highlight >}}

# Dashboards

Currently no new dashboards are hardcoded in nmon2influxdb. It's because the import functionality is still new and it's not fixed what is the best way to display this metrics in Grafana. So the dashboard will evolve a lot in the following weeks. It's easier to share the dashboards outside of the tool for now.

With this release you have 2 dashboards available for download:

  * **hmc_partition.json**

  This dashboard use grafana templating to display partition informations.

  You can import the dashboard with **nmon2influxdb**:
  {{< highlight batch >}}
  nmon2influxdb dashboard hmc_partition.json
  {{</highlight >}}

  {{< gallery image="hmc_partition.png" >}}


  * **hmc_system.json**

  You can import the dashboard with **nmon2influxdb**:
  {{< highlight batch >}}
  nmon2influxdb dashboard hmc_partition.json
  {{</highlight >}}

{{< gallery image="hmc_system.png" >}}

### New configuration parameters

{{< highlight toml >}}
hmc_server="mylab"
hmc_user="hscroot"
hmc_password="abc123"
hmc_managed_system="mysystem"
hmc_database="nmon2influxdbHMC"
hmc_data_retention="40d"
{{< /highlight >}}

**hmc_user** and **hmc_password** provides credentials to login on the HMC specified by **hmc_server**.

**Note:** Connection is done on port **12443**.

By default, another influxdb database is used to store HMC metrics, **hmc_database** allows to change the default value(**nmon2influxdbHMC**).

No data retention is set by default but it's possible to make data expires with the parameter **hmc_data_retention**.

# Example

{{< highlight batch >}}
nmon2influxdb hmc import
###############################
File /log/nmon/lpar02_151104_1204.nmon imported : 316320 points !
file not changed since last import: /log/nmon/lpar01_151104_1116.nmon
file not changed since last import: /log/nmon/lpar01_151104_1200.nmon
file not changed since last import: /log/nmon/lpar02_110415.nmon
{{</highlight >}}
